so this is the Apple watch Ultra it was
added in at the top of the Apple watch
lineup for an extra premium price kind
of as an excuse to pack a much bigger
battery in a smartwatch but also to
offer a few extra ruggedized features
for enthusiasts willing to spend the
extra money now this is the Samsung
Galaxy watch Ultra and it was added to
the top of the Galaxy watch lineup for
an extra premium price kind of as an
excuse to pack a much bigger battery
into a smartwatch but also to offer a
few extra rized features for enthusiasts
willing to spend the money now look
there have been many copies before in
both directions like Samsung copies
Apple all the time and apple copies
Samsung all the time but this one is so
far that it's it's it's hard to ignore
so there's been a lot of chatter online
about how the new Galaxy watch Ultra is
a copycat product of the Apple watch
Ultra and yeah yeah it's true it really
is but I've said this before and I'll
say it again I actually don't care that
these products and companies copy each
other as long as they're copying the
good stuff then you know us as customers
we actually still win this one copied so
many things that it actually went
slightly too far and copied one extra
thing that I think hurt its case so
let's just let's just go down the list
so first of all obviously they had the
same name and the whole idea of the
product as I mentioned before this is
the watch Ultra it's at the top of the
lineup it's the most expensive and of
course they've matched the Apple watch
ultra's durability specs so they're both
made of titanium they're both water
resistant to 100 m they both have
sapphire glass over their cover displays
and then the other basic onp paper specs
like they both have dual frequency GPS
for high accuracy they both have extra
bright displays for visibility Outdoors
so actually both 3,000 nits and then
they both have three default bands so
the Apple watch Ultra has an Ocean band
a Trail Loop and an Alpine band so now
Along Comes Samsung's watch Ultra and
they launch with three bands they don't
have an ocean band though they have a
Marine band totally different and then
they have a trail band and then they
have this Peak form band so yeah The
Ocean band and the Marine band are kind
of like hey can I copy your homework but
change it up just a little bit so it's
not too obvious that I copied and they
kind of didn't change up enough but it's
like okay yeah sweet thanks now we have
two holes on ours instead of one and
everybody knows not every Marine is an
ocean duh but each watch has three
buttons and you may remember the Apple
watch added this special orange button
on the side called the action button
that you could map to any number of
different things but you know it starts
the workout selector by default now the
Galaxy watch Ultra comes along has a new
orange button on the side this one is
called the quick button and it can be
also custom mapped to any number of
different actions but the default again
is a workout selector now don't worry it
keeps going in the software department
they also lifted a whole bunch of stuff
so you know this this watch face that we
keep seeing Samsung using and all of
their Flagship marketing for this thing
with all the complications around the
outside corners definitely takes heavy
inspiration from Apple's Flagship watch
face with the complications everywhere
it also has an all monochrome version
for night mode which was also new to the
Apple watch Ultra and if you want to
change the watch face they both have the
same mechanic just hold down the face
for for a second and then swipe over and
you can customize the complications or
watch faces from there they both use a
blob of icons to scroll through all of
your apps and even the double pinch
gesture so this is something Apple
recently added it was in beta at first
and now it's operational and Samsung's
added it now too it's off by default but
when I turn it on it does the exact same
things so yeah as you can tell there's
no shortage of things that Samsung Has
Lifted from the Apple watch Ultra people
are calling it Shameless people are
calling it pure copycat Behavior there's
endless comments online about it here's
the thing though there's only one thing
that Samsung copied that I actually have
a problem with with this watch like when
you just look at this watch you can
definitely argue it actually looks
mostly different from the Apple watch I
mean I know they both have the orange
button but they've done this kind of
unique thing where it's still a fully
circular watch face but then it's a much
bigger bronny circle shaped titanium
body underneath like call it cushion
design that's at least different you
know I don't know if I actually like it
more but it feels definitively bigger
than the Apple watch Ultra which was
already pretty big but in the grand
scheme of watches it's not actually huge
especially because the size of the
screen is basically the same as a large
watch 7 anyway I thought that with
keeping this circular screen they would
have a physically rotating bezel like a
clicking bezel on the outside because
that that was the sickest feature on the
watch 6 classic and it's the feature
everyone wanted in all the other watches
but they just didn't do it this watch
though is just pure touchscreen for
everything which might not seem like
that big of a deal at first but this is
again this is a watch for Fitness people
doing a lot of workouts and things like
that and if you've used watches in all
these workout situations before then you
know like there are endless situations
where like sweat or your sleeve is
messing with the touchcreen or if you're
you've got gloves on or if you're hiking
or you're underwater or swimming
whatever there's just plenty of chances
for the touchcreen to suck so the
rotating Crown to use as a selector to
mess with the watch would have been a
banger differentiator for this Fitness
watch versus the Apple watch Ultra but
they didn't do it now I'm guessing if
you asked Samsung they would say no
rotating bezel on this watch because
that's a moving part and that wouldn't
have held up to the military grade
certification of the rest of the watch
like it's got this 810h
grade military certification where it's
like it can withstand even tougher drops
and like more dust and wider range of
temperatures and all that stuff so the
moving part wouldn't have worked with
that but honestly Samsung I think just
do it anyway just go with the rotating
bezel I think 99% of users would rather
have the rotating bezel over the
military certification and you know the
1% who don't like they'll get a Garin or
whatever something different but I think
this is something that would have
actually been a great match with this
particular watch now there's a few other
things now that I've used it that do
differentiate this watch too obviously
it's going to be the one that works with
Android phones and not iPhones that's
number one but you know we OS performs
really well I know there was some early
concerns about it not being super smooth
but it's been great it's very
customizable very functional the
full-size keyboard is actually a bit
easier to type on despite having a
bigger screen because they make the
letters bigger and then you have to go
into a secondary menu for symbols
but I actually feel like I can type
words pretty well on this versus other
SmartWatches and I think best of all the
battery life has actually lived up to
its claims so sometimes it's hard to
know what to make of the you know 60
hours versus 100 hours in power saving
mode or 48 hours and exercise power
saving mode it's kind of confusing but
what I will say is it matched and
sometimes beat the battery life of the
Apple watch Ultra like pretty regularly
I felt like it has about a 25% better
standby time so if you have light use
you're just casually like getting text
messages doing one or two workouts you
can easily get two full days out of this
watch and then if you're going heavy if
it's a bunch of workouts then it's
closer to even but still a solid day and
a half especially when you're using that
3,000 nits super amola display a lot
that's impressive so yeah it's it's
pretty clear that Samsung has copied a
lot of features and things about the
Apple watch Ultra but as I've kept
saying if you copy the good stuff
then you can still end up with a great
product no matter how Shameless it is
but the conclusion about this one is is
kind of funny because Apple or Samsung
also updated the watch 7 at the same
time and that watch also has dual
frequency GPS the screen is the same
size even though it's a smaller battery
it's still got sapphire crystal on top
it's got three sporty bands and it's
like half the price so that ends up
making this one feel harder to recommend
mend if it's so similar so this just
ends up being a Galaxy watch for people
who want that but with a bigger battery
and I guess just a little more
ruggedized features and that's kind of
it and you have $650 you're willing to
spend on it so I think the rotating
bezel would have been easier to justify
and like separate them but yeah for now
this is one of those Samsung products
that's a little more Shameless in its
inspiration and it won't won't be the
last one from either
side thanks for watching catch you guys
in the next one peace
[Music]